Review,Rating
"Liquorice, cherry fruit. Simple and coarse at the finish.",horrible
Thin and completely uninspiring.,horrible
"Charming, violet-fragranced nose. Classic Guigal Cote Rotie.",terrific
Good grip and a touch of rusticity on the length. VA showing through. On the downhill slope. Just,terrific
"Gummy nose, merlot-style sweetness. Good wine, but not in a style I was expecting.",terrific
Liquorice. Fruit beginning to dry out.,horrible
A big nose of public swimming pools - bizarre (some might say funky).,horrible
Good fruit - nice acidity. Pretty intense although it seems quite evolved for a young wine - I fear it may go down the Ozzy route of rather early flabby kerosene flavours. Top,horrible
Curiously Sauvignon-like - quite rich. Odd balance - people were saying this is a vineyard Huet took on and then abandoned. Good wine but it doesn't seem to have the class of their major wines. A low,horrible
"Leafy, dry, decent balance. Good wine but I doubt it's going anywhere much. Pleasant, and perhaps it would reward further attention.",horrible
"Quite baked, decent concentration - slightly hot finish. I recall having had better from this producer.",horrible
"Beautifully refined. Complex, elegant, long with the amazing precision so typical of the producer. Lovely.",terrific
"Very fresh, lifted, aromatic. Top",horrible
"Dry, clean, unassuming. Touch of spritz.",horrible
"Quite mouthfilling - dry, fruity. Nice.",horrible
Soft blackcurrant fruit - with tannic background that starts to show in the midpalate. Odd balance.,horrible
Rich again - gamy animal dry - could do with long decanting. Bare,terrific
"Modern stuff, rather lacking depth and complexity.",horrible
Pretty awful - very soft and commercial. Confected.,horrible
"A slightly embarrassing start to the evening with people thinking this was vintage (1990 or 1996), possibly Krug, possibly Billecart. Lovely wine whatever. A touch of pink on the colour - a blush to cover our blushes. Elegant, good length and fine balanced acidity. A really good, cheap (under 15) fizz.",terrific
A touch gummy and with a hint of leather. Drier than many. Robust.,terrific
Youthful (obviously the youngest wine of this flight). Powerful wine with lovely softy tannins at the end.,horrible
"Past its peak, although still very drinkable. Fruit is starting to dry out and a touch of volatility is appearing.",horrible
Vegetal blackcurrant. Soft and not together.,horrible
Some thought this stunk rather. I thought it the finest wine of this flight. Lovely fragrant mature Shiraz nose. At peak. Good.,terrific
"Young and closed, but seemed a bit simple.",horrible
"On the whole, well made stuff, but there does seem to be an odd dull metallic note to the wine. Otherwise there is soft, well-balanced fruit.",horrible
"Dry, clean, nice piney (is that allowed?) spicy perhaps is better. Reasonable complexity once it has warmed up above the icy temperature at which it was served. Decent length. Top",horrible
Nice white-pepper spicyness - balanced and long - the extreme nature of the vintage less apparent than I feared.,horrible
"Fresh, grassy, a bit vegetal. Fruity and a touch sweet. Top",horrible
"Drier, quite intense. Hints at almonds and lime.",horrible
A touch reductive/sulphury. Forward fruit - pleasantly dry. Top,horrible
"Intense pure cassis, ripe with some quite dry succulent tannins. Fairly sweet impression on the palate.",horrible
Sickly toffee-fudge nose. Sweet fruit. I don't like this.,horrible
Quite sweet - very soft fruit. Herby and lifted. Decent,horrible
Almost Madeira-like. It suffered a bit on serving - it was rather sedimenty. Pleasant but fading a bit.,horrible
"Classic again on the nose, but a rather fresher, more stable palate with complex multi-faceted fruit. Once open for an hour or so it becomes fragrant and high-toned. Drinking well and no hurry to consume.",terrific
"I don't get to try an awful lot of Bacchus nowadays, although way back I used to attend the English Wine Fair and try samples there. I can't say I miss it much. This wine is floral, grapefruity and with hints of sauvignon-like flavours. Strangely for a cleanly made 11% white wine, it isn't the sort of stuff you want to drink a whole bottle of - it's not unpleasant, just that the acidity and fruit somehow manage to dull the tastebuds. Hopefully the Champagne style Pinot that was also sent will be more interesting.",horrible
"Lovely fizz, with good nutty steely age on the palate. Fine depth of flavour, although the palate does tire very slightly at the end. Really on very good form.",terrific
I don't often drink village Chablis. This is a good example of what you get from a good one: all the stony minerality and dryness of a premier cru but just a bit less intense and refined. Best with food.,horrible
"Top, top quality. Creamy fruit, lean, complex and mineral - with only a slightly reduced intensity and length reflecting the modest vintage.",terrific
"Quite rich, forward, exotic fruit. Drinking nicely. This bottle had been forgotten in a freezer overnight, and then thawed - didn't seem to have done much damage, and as my host remarked it's an easy way of opening the bottle.",horrible
"Understated, quite complex, but a little flat and dominated by a caramel/toffee overlay that I'm not keen on. Being a Tempier fan I was expecting a lot from this, but on this showing I'm not wildly keen.",horrible
From a magnum (well it was New Year's Eve). I think I've had this bottle for five plus years. Lovely stuff - beautifully balanced. Could still have used a few more years. A very easy,terrific
"Deep colour, very yeasty nose and honied appley fruit with bags of mushrooms. Evolved. Quite bold and rich. Long and delicious, provided you like the meaty, not so elegant, Bollinger style - it's not everyones glass of bubbles. Top",terrific
"Mineral, nice fruit, dry and taught. Starting to drink nicely. Bare",terrific
"Closed at first, but opens out - lovely pure raspberry fruit. High-toned. Very long. Needs a few more years to peak.",terrific
"Colour tending to brown. Quite animal, rich and decadent - fades a bit in the glass and rapidly becomes cloying.",horrible
"Amazing dense young colour. Floral, mineral, tobacco. Iodine finish. Very fine indeed.",terrific
"Mineral nose, rich cherry fruit hot iron finish. Fantastic interest - packed with ripe tannins. Great balance - but lots of potential. Top",terrific
"Apricot fruit, creamy texture and flavour. No great complexity (typical of Eiswein). Lovely acidity. Bare",terrific
"As it opens up, rather fine - raspberry fruit, touch of chocolate, a bit spirity towards the end. Moderate weight now. Top",terrific
"Very fresh, lots of fizz. Touch of yeast, etc - a touch shorter and less weighty than the Bolly. In spectacularly good condition and with fine, precise bready flavours. Lovely Top",terrific
OK stuff with decent fruit. A touch coarse.,horrible
"Beautiful. Especially after a bottle of indifferent Prosecco drunk with candied(?) hibiscus flowers in the glass. The Lynch-Bages is elegant, and suggests an inner depth that is not at present fully forthcoming. Hints of peach kernel and tempered steel.",terrific
"Vanillan, lovely mousse, very elegant. Understated class.",terrific
"Terribly refined, mature Claret. Great breed and balance. I sometimes find Pichon just a little too suave and lacking edge for my tastes, but this is a super wine.",terrific
"Fresh, fragrant raspberry nose. Fine, elegany, light palate. Joyfully lovely.",terrific
Drinking (from a half) really beautifully now. A delight.,terrific
"Initially modern, rich, almost flashy. Later, gamy. Not sure what to make of this - it's not like the Vallana wines of old but it is quite substantial. Top",horrible
"Clean, dry, attractive. Very drinkable.",horrible
"Perhaps starting to tire a bit nice fruit, quite dry-seeming now with a bit of Pfalzy weight and a hint of hardness. Pleasant enough.",horrible
"Iodine and iron, rich, decadent, fleshy. Fruitcake fruit. Good, and time to drink. Bare",terrific
"Tight acidity, fine and intense. I've been a bit up-and-down about this wine but I'm sure I like this bottle. Perhaps even",terrific
Not very striking.,horrible
"Lovely apple and cream nose, slightly honied and a touch of yeast. Fine mousse too. Lovely. A 93/94/95 blend I believe. Top",terrific
"That old Rioja nose of nuts and mushrooms and something slightly medical - lovely. Very fresh, nicely rounded fruit. Ultimately I suppose not complex enough to be a great wine but rather good. Bare",terrific
"An enigma: that slightly ""flat"" souuthern-French palate, but with air an engaging herby nose. Is it going anywhere? I'm not sure. Top",horrible
"Good Syrah character, fruit-driven but not to the point of undrinkability. Pleasant. Scrapes",horrible
"Blackberry fruit, some oak I think - quite tannic perhaps from the oak. Modern-style.",horrible
Quite spritzy initially but the next day that had dissipated and the honeysuckle Soave charcter and pure fruit very evident. Good length too. Top,horrible
This is better every time I try it - class will out and I think it is Le Mesnil fruit that is giving it such minerality and complexity. Delicious.,terrific
Spicy riesling petrolly nose. Pretty dry - good length. But fairly simple and light.,horrible
Again petrolly - rather richer. Quite good concentration. Dry. I wonder how this will go given it is already so petrolly.,horrible
Honey and caramel. Butter. Less intense on the palate. Good,horrible
Unusually intense vanilla nose. Damp straw - quite heavy-textured.,horrible
Berry nose. Oddly rasping finish.,horrible
Minty. Similar - finishes a bit abruptly.,horrible
Minty. A bit toffeed. High-toned. I'm not wild about this.,horrible
Liquour raspberry again. A bit thick. Softer and lacking the attack of the 2001.,horrible
Hints at mint again. Oddly twisty. Yet more balanced than the Chileans.,horrible
Pleasant and gracefully old - perhaps going a bit flat. Top,horrible
"One of those wines where the first sniff tells you that you are in the presence of something special. Glorious sweet St Julien fruit with a palate that is on first taste deceptively simple. None of the ┬ætypical Talbot whiff of the barnyard' that Broadbent notes, but rather, on this showing, a wine of great purity and lasting structure. Superb, and at a glorious peak.",terrific
"From a half. Delicious and aging rather well. Good apricoty acidity and with a sweetness that is verging on being oversweet, but which is contained within the framework of the wine. I think this will age into something truly great.",terrific
Showing its age with a tendency towards maderisation but very drinkable with yeasty rich fruit and good length.,terrific
"Like a Viognier almost, nicely intense. Top",horrible
"Meatier, longer and generally a bit more substantial than the 93 with a slight bitterness on the finish that will probably ease further although the wine must be close to peak. Again so individual and so much a terroir wine. I love it. Bare",terrific
"Backward, dense but fragrant and long. Coming towards peak. Really lovely.",terrific
"This has rather a baked fruit character that I am not so keen on. It is hard to taste against great wines like the Gentaz, but only a top",horrible
"Fragrant, dry and long. More mineral and complex than the other Ogier wines. Really lovely and should be drunk on its own away from the Gentaz wines that tend to upstage it.",terrific
"An absolute star that could even benefit from another year or two. Tremendous weight, and concentrated minerality but all in balance. Fantastic. Top",terrific
"This has a solid core of fruit, and the minerality and complexity that all the wines possess. It is a touch harder and a touch less strong all round than the 89 however. Bare",terrific
Awkwardly dry and rather short. Would go down quite well with food perhaps but not great - hardly surprising given the vintage. Top,horrible
Asian spices (as R.P. so often says). Fresh (almost youthful still) with fantastically long fruit. Gorgeous. Top,terrific
More awkward than the 85 - it lacks that wines easy balance. But this is really complex and the minerality is perhaps even more pronounced. Intellectual wine and really good.,terrific
"More open and leafy, lacks the poise of the best vintages but does give a long mineral mouthful.",terrific
"Mineral, broad, intense with a restrained, crystalline purity. Brilliant.",terrific
"According to the front label 'An original blend of 95% SYRAH'; according to the back label a 'wonderful accompaniment to chicken dishes, goat's cheese tart or full flavoured cheeses' and 'Suitable for vegetarians and vegans'. Unlike the labelling, the wine isn't too contrived. Good balance and good red fruit depth. It will probably improve with a few years age. By the way, the other 5% is Mouvedre [sic]. Just",horrible
I wasn't expecting much of this - Sunday evening combined with a general foreboding about white Rhones. What a revelation though! Glorious full bodied stuff with a lovely toffee and honeysuckle length to the palate. A wine I could drink and drink - and not just on Sundays.,terrific
"Good old fizz with touches of honey, wood and aniseed. Medium bodied and with the acidity to keep the mature flavours together.",terrific
"A disappointing wine in some sense. Quite winey, and doesn't really have the class one expects. Relatively (for a big name from '96) rather simple and lacking the drama and complexity of something to tuck away for the future. Possibly an off form bottle.",horrible
"Peachy, exotic, quite evolved. Made to drink fairly young, but has that Grand Cru something about it. Bare",terrific
"So floral, pure and beautiful. Intense, dry. Approachable but lots of underlying structure. Completely gorgeous.",terrific
"Leaner, sea breezes. Very classic. Lovely. (In time the 89 will be the better wine I guess.)",terrific
Not edgy like the last time. Very fine. Piquant. Complex. Very classic.,terrific
"As usual, a melange of flavours. Delicious. Bare",terrific
"Suave, silky, dry. Quite structured. Easy",horrible
A bit dry - might improve but seems a bit austere. But rather a nice nose.,horrible
"Scented nose but tannic. Serious, I find the new oak tannins a bit more difficult young than the traditional style. But the oak is done well and terroir shows through. Pretty concentrated - fine wine. This has quite a lot of quality and might evolve well in a Sandrone sort of way.",horrible
More body but perhaps a touch less well delineated than the Sandrone. Very nice approaching maturity. Bare,terrific
"So delicate, mineral, fine and long. Just ready.",terrific
"A bit extracted and a bitter for my palate. Not my sort of thing, although there's alot of wine in the glass. Perhaps I might warm to it with more time. Good",horrible
"Rather dilute, dull and uninteresting.",horrible
"A bit tough and tannic, but with good texture. Could do with a bit more fruit. More drinkable than I thought it would be.",horrible
"Very pleasantly cedary, but this Bordeaux-style wine's fruit is becoming a bit thin now.",horrible
"I haven't tasted this for eight years, I think. I rated it very highly then as a young wine and now it has a restrained but lovely old apricot nose and a wonderful density of fruit of fruit and a rich, extravagently viscous texture. There's a nice level of acidity too that stops it cloying and a very long finish. Very lovely, but I have slight reservations about the complexity - it does seem, as one might perhaps expect from the grape, a touch one-dimensional given its other qualities.",terrific
"My first sampling of Jadot's Beaujolais project. My first thought was that I was expecting something a bit larger, but the fruit has good, under-stated concentration and there is an attractive mineral core too. Very drinkable, yet there is a tannic underpinning that will give a at least a few years of positive evolution. I am quite positive about htis - for now a conservative",horrible
"I don't want to be unfair to this wine (it was a quick replacement for the undrinkable Lamaione), but this isn't quite of the standard that previous vintages of this wine used to be - although, possibly, it is just a bit closed.",horrible
A really good bottle of this wine - it seems in the past to have varied between 3 and 4 stars. This one had the good strawberry leather nose of the best bottles.,terrific
"Leathery, rustic and farmyardy. Not the most elagent wine ever, but it never has been. Just",terrific
"Elegant, ripe apples, fine, long finish. Excellent fine mousse. Not universally enjoyed, perhpas becaus it could do with some time in bottle. I like the style though. Scrapes",terrific
Very toasty - one gets used to it. Very tightly elegant and fine but it lacks sensory oomph a bit even though it is seriously concentrated. Loses fizz quite quickly. I have slightly mixed feelings about this but maybe it needs further study. Top,terrific
Lovely together fizz - good acidity - elegant.,terrific
"Delicious weighty wine with a good, heavy acidity. Stunning.",terrific
Dusty and drying out.,horrible
Good but closed.,horrible
Drinking beautifully. Easily the claret of the evening for drinking now. Textbook Pauillac at a peak.,terrific
"The last time I had this, in 2002, it seemed a weedy wine that probably wasn't going to live to its youthful potential. It just had the odd glimpse suggesting it might improve - but I wasn't that convinced. Fortunately though, this bottle at least is on lovely form. A dry wine without flashiness, but lovely toned acidity and flavours that are constantly developing in the glass. And to think that I almost decided to drink all my bottles in 2002. An easy",terrific
"Attractive nutty (marzipan?), tangy nose, very nicely-textured palate with solid underlying fruit and a lovely salty finish. All quite refined. Maybe scrapes",terrific
"This wine has a touch of the lifted salty tang of Manzanilla over a burnt old-wine palate with a long finish. Very mouthwatering, a touch of camphor or something. Seems almost better after a day or two open. Very lovely. Easy",terrific
"Very fine and long - tangy, hints of chocolate almost on the nose. Not quite as demanding as the Coliseo from this house but very fine.",terrific
Not quite one thing or the other if you know what I mean. Vibrant ripe fruit to start with but with a green and dilute finish. Not as interesting as I would have hoped.,horrible
Good fruit but perhaps a touch rustic - old straw farmyard characters of a pleasant sort. Completely mature and very drinkable. Forgiving it a certain rusticity one might stretch to,terrific
"Seems pretty much ready to drink - nice balance, generous fruit and a nice dry finish. Bare",terrific
"Clean, fresh and simple wine with lightweight raspberry fruit.",horrible
"Dry, yet with with very nicely-textured fruit. A bargain at well the right side of a tenner.",horrible
Pleasant.,horrible
"Nice example, without any great extra complexity. Top",horrible
Red Burgundy Wine as it helpfully says on the label. Rather dilute and lacking. Possibly just too old.,horrible
"Sweeter fruit than the above, and with a simple charm. But hard work finding much flavour.",horrible
"A bit unripe on the palate, and with coarse fruit. Some (pleasant) signs of maturity on the nose, but not coordinated with the rest of the wine.",horrible
"Occasional glimpses of bacon fat and raspberry, but some coarseness and awkwardness.",horrible
Rather overwrought - huge alcohol - rather flabby fruit (although superficially there's decent acidity). A substantial wine that perhaps I just wasn't in the mood for. Top,horrible
"Refined, concentrated, almost high-toned. Just beginning to drink well. Lovely.",terrific
Light colour but in fact quite botrytised. Quite high-toned. Grippy. A very good wine for the property.,terrific
"Possibly seems a bit older than it is. Good acidity and some tannin at the end of a fairly full bodied, old-fashioned entrance. Needs some time to resolve itself.",terrific
Really quite forward - touch of vanilla - long and enjoyable but doesn't seem to have the guts to be a real keeper. Bare,terrific
"Only a year or two delayed versus the standard vintage. Still very fresh, nutty and autolytic - really yeasty on the nose. Drier and tighter than the GA 97 too - lower dosage probably and perhaps the vintage too. Complex finish. Lovely. Scrapes",terrific
"Red wine made from Pinot Noir, of course. Fairly complex nose, bone dry - seems a bit flat and old on the mid-palate. All the interest is on the nose. Rather dull in the mouth. If fizz could be made with these grapes, then this is a bit of a waste except that it gives some insight into the nature of fruit that makes good Champagne. Bare",horrible
"Very mushroom and truffle - and hinting at maderisation. Curious indeed, and not entirely positively. Old beyond its years - is it an odd bottle? The guy from Bollinger says not, but seemed to have decided this before nosing mine. Perhaps having this after desert was a poor idea (I did think of leaving my pud until later) and I wouldn't be surprised if there is more to this wine than I found. For now, the interest on the nose scrapes",terrific
"Herbs and spices, with rounded green-pea and other vegetal flavours. Quite individual but really, really good.",terrific
"very sugary, rich, sweet. Not enough acidity for my palate.",horrible
"Leafy, rounded, balnced. Very nice. Bare",terrific
"A touch higher-toned. Toffeed, quite light. Top",horrible
"Quite dry now, delicate, peach-kernels. Elegant, but perhaps no huge length. Bare",terrific
"Herby brown sugar, fairly simple but a nice balance. Bought from a monastry on Majorca 20 yrs ago(!) A pretty pleasant drink.",horrible
"Yeasty, nutty, complex, lovely balance. Drinking at peak. Bare",terrific
"Very rich and off-dry for kabinet - a fine vintage, I guess.",horrible
"Very pure and complex, oak not very evident (an improvement on Silex of old). Excellent concentration.",terrific
Excellent - very typically Raveneau.,terrific
"Provence herbs, creamy, lovely. Top",terrific
Beginning to be rather edgy - a bit volatile on the finish. Not bad. A good,horrible
Rubbery - rather oxidised.,horrible
"Rounded , berryish, touch of raspberry. Complex. Substantial. Very fine.",terrific
"Oddly empty midpalate. Hard, and difficult, finish. Top",horrible
"Creamy, rich fruit. Excellent concentration and length. Nice tone. Bare",terrific
"Rose petals, fine, nutty, elegant. Top",terrific
"Moderate weight, fragrant, sweet fruit. Lively. Excellent.",terrific
Mature colour and flavour. Mineral - I thought St Emilion - and now a touch decadent. But a really nice mature Claret. Bare,terrific
Lovely - for drinking over the next year or three.,terrific
"Very bright and mouthwatering, pure attractive fruit and some tannic backbone. Very good.",terrific
"Not a flashy, rowdy 82 but I feel perhaps that in avoiding that the wine lacks the definition or complexity to be better than very good. Fine wine, starting to drink well, but a little less than one might hope for given the property and the vintage.",terrific
"Deep brown with a green rim. Riesling nose. Very Madeira-like. Interesting more than enjoyable, in the end.",horrible
"Very fine. Balanced, starting to drink nicely. Top",terrific
"Lovely, blueberry fruit. Refined and pure. Good balance for the vintage.",horrible
"Smoke and tobacco, pleasant palate, really nice persistent finish. Excellent. Bare",terrific
"Very fine, elegant, scented, balanced. Still on a gentle up-curve. Bare",terrific
"Sexy, perfumed, a bit showy, very suave, lovely - easier but less intellectually satisfying than the GPL.",terrific
"Healthy colour. Lovely fragrance, summery, rose-hips. Perfumed. Lovely. From a half.",terrific
"Good colour, chunky, quite tannic. Lacks the easy charm of the Issan but pretty good.",terrific
"Plummy, rich fruit - deepening with some air. Classy drinking, still quite tannic. Bare",terrific
"Curiously charred and smoky at first but that blows off - presumably not overly toasted barrels then. A lovely, irony mature Claret with succulent fruit emerges. Delicious drinking.",terrific
Intense but a bit oaked up at the expense of the clarity that I look for in top Soave. Clearly a good estate and I'd be interested to try their unoaked top wines. A good,horrible
A bit unexciting - decent but didn't do a lot for me.,horrible
Quite rich and sweet - the vintage perhaps. Good quality.,horrible
"Soft, forward quite chocolatey St Emilion. Pleasant drinking. Being a bit mean:",horrible
Excellent fruit - some structure. Serious wine worth another look.,horrible
"A really good bottle of one of these recently disgorged wines (that canbe a little variable). Tjis one with lovely autolytic flavours and honey over lovely fresh fruit. Quite nicely rounded, but no hint of flab.",terrific
"(I think I have remembered the vintage correctly.) Nice, well-made dessert wine.",horrible
Nice acidity - honeyed with minor age. Lovely texture.,terrific
Soft and dilute. All over the place.,horrible
Vibrant and in a dry style - needs a bit more time possibly.,horrible
"More complexity than the others, and to my mind a better style of wine for it - smooth rather than vibrant. A touch of volatility.",terrific
Vegetal and astringent - all over the place. I think this wine had a synthetic cork. Poor.,horrible
Leafy and some tannin. Simple and falls apart.,horrible
"Yeasty, quite fragrant. Slightly toffeed fruit. Quite decent length. Some might say tired but I find this rather good. Not often one has a Swiss wine!",horrible
"Slightly sweeter, mineral, riper, palate. Complete wine - very good indeed.",terrific
"Perhaps just the great vintage but drier and more terroir-driven. Very, very good. Possibly could do with another year or two.",terrific
Deep orange colour - apricot fruit - pleasant but odd. An attempt at ol-fashioned winemaking that doesn't quite come off?,horrible
Very pure raspberry fruit - savoury - good length. Scrapes,terrific
"Finer, more intense and more elegant. Pretty classy. Scrapes",terrific
"Pure, balanced, nice food wine. Easy",horrible
"Bone dry, pleasant, a little light beside the Pouilly.",horrible
Softer and fruitier on the palate than the GC - two patches of vines that are quite close together. They are quite different but I wonder if one could or should blend them.,horrible
A bit soft and unfocussed beside the Colombier wines but I find it hard to say whether it is producer-style or the dreaded hot vintage syndrome striking again. A good,horrible
"Straightforward clean, dry, decent Chablis. Top",horrible
"Understated, dry (none of that fatness the village wine has) lots of Puligny character. Good balance and excellent length.",horrible
"A bit clarety - fruit tending toward cassis and some wood influence, I think. Pleasant enough.",horrible
"Quite large and broad, a food wine I think, and it will take a few years aging quite well. A Cortese and Chardonnay blend. At least a top",horrible
Pleasant forward fruit with a twist of bitterness. Not bad at all. Top,horrible
Method Champenois from Chardonnay and Pinot - idiosynchratic wine with a touch of pink and some high-toned red wine aromas. I'd like to try some more. At least a top,horrible
Nebbiolo Barbera blend quite heavily oaked. Quite good of its sort.,horrible
"Rounded, suave fruit, some tannins but would be fine with food. Top",horrible
"Nicely poised, splendid balance, clean and pure. Sophisticated wine.",horrible
"Nicely done, although to my taste it might be better without the barriques.",horrible
"Pure, very restrained varietal statement (a plus point). Nice. Top",horrible
Richer - 2003 was very warm here too I think. Similar quality. Top,horrible
"Aniseed, baked fruit, very dense. I hardly ever drink young port but I am sure this will be very good.",horrible
"Dry austere long. More intense. Opens up dramatically - peaches, minerals. Very nice. Bare",terrific
Intense Very long. Just what one might hope for. Top,terrific
Slightly sweeter style (dessert rather than aperetif) - but reasonable acid balance. Nice grapey fruit.,horrible
Apricot jam - quite a lot of botrytis - modest acidity. Decent rather than excellent length. Perfectly nice but a bit simple for a top wine - unless it is in a quiet phase. A bare,horrible
"Lots of apricot, coconut, banana, and exotic fruit. Big and rich yet so complex. Lovely and will be great.",terrific
"Apples, cinnamon and bananas (someone said). Disjointed acidity. A gentle but in fact quite persistent finish. A touch towards cloying but very good of its type. Others will like this more.",horrible
Simple rather unbalanced shiraz with some vibrancy.,horrible
"Fresh, fruity stuff with a good balancing acidity. No great complexity.",horrible
Good food wine - hearty and with some tannin.,horrible
Light syrah fragrance and good balance. Medium weight for short term drinking.,horrible
I probably always have higher expectations of a wine with the name `Perrin' on it than I should do. Maybe I should always taste them blind. This wine lacks dimension and doesn't really excite.,horrible
"Pleasantly rich. Honied, intense. Very good. Bare",terrific
"Cherries, high-oned chalky minerality. Very firm and very good - perhaps a touch less silkyily fine than more recent Fourrier vintages. Bare",terrific
"Soft, rounded touch of mint. fleshy. Very nice.",terrific
"rounded and ripe. soft and delicious. slightly more ""cooked"". Bare",terrific
A touch lighter than the other two vintages but very fine and nicely wrought.,terrific
"Rose-petals, touch of marzipan, lots of glycerol, creamy, very lovely.",terrific
Clear Riesling nose with a touch of sweet toffee that's probably come with the maturity.,terrific
"An intersting comparsion wine to the earlier Chianti. This is more robust and has a slight bitterness to the fruit. Holding up well, and probalbly needs more time.",terrific
"Very graceful, almondy nose - slightly floral, but pleasingly free of overt varietal statement. (I think it's a blend of various varieties, for what it's worth.) On the palate, completely balanced with perfect acidity and a touch of ripe lemon around a concentrated but understated palate. Very fine.",terrific
"Dense young colour and intense black cherry and cough-sweet nose. Despite the concentration of fruit it's very silky on the palate with a background of ripe tannins. Very luscious. Seems almost less approachable the next day, which is a bit frightening. Top stuff.",terrific
"A long maceration job, in the style of Gravner, but from Garganega from Gambellara just outside Soave. Deeply coloured but slightly cloudy, with a flat peachy nose. Slight spritz on the fruit. Interesting but slightly flawed I feel. I'll keep a look out for further vintages but just a good",horrible
Creamy texture and hight-toned herby fruit. Very dry and quite stylish but perhaps it was better a few years ago - it does seem to be drying out a bit. Top,horrible
Healthy colour. Fragrant rose-garden nose with cedar and tobacco notes. The fruit quite sweet and ripe. This seems resolved but lasts well overnight. Rather good.,terrific
Quite chocolatey - fruit seems a touch attenuated at first but opens up to a delicious blueberry-raspberry mixture. From a half. Bare,terrific
"Not a property I've drunk much recently and it used to be a bit of a joke for producing ""Englishman's Claret"". They've done quite well in this vintage though: quite powerful and structured, good fruit, drinkable now but probably more so in a couple of years. Good at the price.",horrible
"Pure, pleasant. Top",horrible
Nice fruit - fruitcake - good structure. Could do with a year or two. Decent balance.,horrible
Vanilla - weight of a traditional wine - but the fruit quite bright and fresh cherry. Pleasant. Worth,horrible
"Grassy, slightly flabby fruit.",horrible
Slightly sicky edge to the fruit. Rather dominated by red wine characters. I'm not so keen.,horrible
"Rather soft, easy fruit - both nose and palate. Quite rich, briochey. To drink quite soon - but good. Bare",terrific
"(A blend of 95 and 96) Creamy, gamy, rich, stewed apples and strawberries again. Rather good. Perhaps even",terrific
"Very nice, quite creamy, mineral. Persistent. A good",terrific
"Gingery fruit, pleasant but a bit dull.",horrible
"Now more evolved, rich, low-acid mature Rhone.",horrible
"Rich, deep-coloured, rather new-oak influenced, seems oxidative. In danger of being overwrought - not clear where this is going. Has some character though.",horrible
"Again deep-coloured, ambitious. Not that exciting to drink now - but it might improve.",horrible
"creamy, minerals, delicious.",terrific
"Very elegant, moderate weight, quite complex and an excellent finish for the vintage.",terrific
"Chestnut, coffee, lovely ripe fruit. Quite fresh and fruity. Still well-structured but drinking well - no hurry to drink this.",terrific
Bags of botrytis but a bit coarse.,horrible
"Fresh, strawberry and redcurrant flavours with good balancing acidity and a touch of eldeflower. Good, easy drinking for a summer's evening.",horrible
"Frizzante, only 6.5% alcohol, pleasantly refreshing. Rather like a Moscato but floral rather than grapey. It says ""dolce"" on the corner of the label - it's about demi-sec and nicely in balance of rthe style. Ideal for sunny garden evenings. Well made.",horrible
"Toffee and caramel, quite maderised and a bit vegetal but maintaining interest and drinkability despite being past its best. I oscillate between finding this too far-gone and admiring it. A reminder of what over-old white Burgundy should be like, as compared to the current rash of prematurely oxidised wines that are simply rotting. Some will find this unappetising but I'll settle on",horrible
Softly peachy fruit. Easy stuff nicely made. Top,horrible
"Touch drier, richer, more serious but still fairly easy. Good",horrible
A bit more depth and all-round strength with some positive evolution ahead. Not really long-term though.,horrible
Dry and perfumed - gamy end. A star. More or less drinking now.,terrific
"Lovely biscuity nose. Balanced fruit - complex long, and lovely.",terrific
"Fantastic concentration. Thoroughly integrated after a fascinating nose. A great wine if not terribly Cote-Rotie. Beginning to hint at volatility so time to drink, I feel.",terrific
Quite dry barley-sugar fruit. Intense - lots of fruit almost obscuring lots of botrytis. Rich and very good -,terrific
"This bottle has been shouting 'drink me, drink me!' for the last couple of years - eyeing me up each time I opened the cellar. I had it last in 1999, when it was disappointing. This time though it was a glorious claret with warm, pencil-shaving nose and palate. I'm glad I've resited its calling until now because this bottle was caught at its best. There is a touch of weediness (well it's not the best vintage ever), but the balance is fine. This is the sort of wine that makes keeping fine wine so satisfying. I could drink a lot of this, alas though this was my last bottle. A charming",terrific
"This is Syrah, Garnacha and Tempranillo in the ratio 7:2:1. Modern wine, but well made with a dryness of fruit balanced by good tannins. A bit closed at present I feel, but it probably has some potential. A cautious",horrible
"Wax, lanolin, quite dry, grass and corn. Very, very long. Really lovely.",terrific
A little lighter at first but very similar in character to the Haut Brion tasted with it. Long again. Fills out nicely once it has been open a while. Excellent.,terrific
"Fragrant fruity nose, liquorice, mineral palate. Really interesting wine.",terrific
Lovely dry savoury palate. Sucks from your tongue after a ripe start. Classic mature Claret and really good.,terrific
"Open, fruity nose - lovely irony palate. Scrapes",terrific
"Quiet nose - totally individual irony, dry, complex, long palate. A great pleasure.",terrific
"Stylish, high-toned. Integrated botrytis. A really good wine from a property that doesn't always do it for me.",terrific
"Lightweight, dilutish wine, but clean and otherwise balanced.",horrible
A touch of rusticity in the background behind some good sweet fruit. Simple.,horrible
"Grassy, very dry, elegant, touch of autolysis. Lovely balance.",terrific
"Touch of kerosene, very textured. Quite intense and long. The richness is down to a a touch of botrytis apparently. Bare",terrific
"Amazingly long. Mineral too. Dry, complex. Drinking well but completely fresh. Gorgeous. Scrapes",terrific
"Bone-dry, nice range of flavours. Very good basic Burgundy.",horrible
Brown sugar - quite restrained. Very fine and long. Top,terrific
"Rounded, quite ripe, meaty and tending to decadence. High-toned. Very nice if not wildly complex.",terrific
"Smoky, refined, holding nicely although for drinking in the next year or two. Rather lovely. Top",terrific
Reminder to self: I must stop thinking of eighties Clarets as infants. This is pretty much mature although it will probably evolve interestingly over a decade or more. Very classic cigar-box and cassis. A pleasure to drink. Top,terrific
Coming towards maturity - great breeding: fine balance in quite a weighty wine. All the classic Barsac characteristics.,terrific
"Easy, peachy fruit. Pleasantly fruity.",horrible
Fragrant in an oily sort of way. A touch flabby. Fading.,horrible
Rieslingy. Nice weight. Bare,horrible
"A bit flatter and a touch dull. OK, but only",horrible
Lifted cherry cough sweet. Pleasant wine.,horrible
"Quite suave. Serious. A touch of vanilla. Modern-style - ""fut de chene"" proudly advertised -never a good sign.",horrible
Middle weight - a bit colourless.,horrible
"Opened with trepidation given Toby's recent article ablout 1996 white Burgundy. This one, however, was fine. Elegant, light to medium bodied and with good use of oak. Good texture to the wine. Possibly needs more time in bottle to be at its absolute best.",terrific
"A joy. Not a wine that needs too much thinking about, but delivers what is expected of a decent twenty-year-old Pauillac. Elegance and grace, and with the clarety minerality of age. At peak, I think, but no rush to drink up.",terrific
"I have quite a lot of this wine, and I have been a bit concerned of more recent times whether I needed to rush to drink it up. On this bottle's showing, I need not have too many worries about that. Not quite up to the standard of the previous wine (it somehow lacks the breeding), but good nonetheless with fruit and maturity working well together. No rush to drink up.",terrific
Inferior Italian fizz. Soft.,horrible
"From a half. Vegetal, coarse. Varnishy. Astringent finish. Odd.",horrible
Sweet botrytisy nose. Lovely balance. Delicious. A top,terrific
"Young coloured - subdued nose. Oak and good, closed tannins.",terrific
Smokey tempranillo. Delicious. Pick of the reds for me.,terrific
"Young and deep and with sweetness. Tannins, but a bit volatile.",horrible
"From a half - I think. Tasted(?) at the end of the evening. Can't remember much about it, and I didn't make notes. But I seem to have scribbled down",terrific
"Genuine chalky minerality and, once it has opened up, rich (but not excessively so) nectarine-kernel fruit. Nice acidity and good length. Starting to drink quite well now but no hurry to consume. Easy",horrible
"High-toned, dry, floral. Mineral.",horrible
"Fat, quite evolved. Dry and balanced but the fruit doesn't quite have the tone. A good",horrible
"Ungainly now. Hard. Fantastic underlying concentration, comlexity and length - will be excellent.",horrible
"Dry but rich. Complex, still a bit hard.",terrific
"Fantastic complexity - resolved I guess but nowehere close to decline. A delight and like the previous two wines, quite firm and masculine.",terrific
Riper and bigger. Complex and delicious. A bit easy-going to be really great. Bare,terrific
"Lovely - completely fresh, complex and long. Easy",terrific
Pale but green rim. Loads of brown sugar. Fantastic fruit. A lovely dessert wine.,terrific
Tropically edged green-pea fruit. Manages to be quite easily fruity but pretty dry and appetising. Good intensity and length. Very pure and enjoyable.,horrible
"Light-coloured, fragrant, pinot-like. Really fairly simple but pleasant. Makes",horrible
"The fruit seems very mature - almost over. Herby - quite complex. Still quite tannic. As Paolo de Marchi remarked, there can be a problem with Sangiovese of the fruit maturing before the tannins. Bare",terrific
A bit higher-toned perhaps. More tannins but generally a little bit thinner. Still nicely elegant.,horrible
Quite sweet. Fairly sherried and very intense. Lovely concentration.,terrific
"One of those wines that is just bordering on the past it, but is still pleasant and intersting to drink: it's possibly just that bit too oxidised, but this has given it a nutty character.",horrible
"Rather disjointed and disappointing - a bit volatile. It might come together, but I think not.",horrible
"Not something to get too excited about, but with decent, sweet strawberry/cherry fruit.",horrible
"Elegant, fine, fruity, long, long finish.",terrific
"Mahogany - dry, oozing age, complex, quite challenging and altogether wonderful.",terrific
Sage and onion stuffing - cranberries. Strange but splendid.,terrific
"Light fragile colour, sweet dilutish strawberry colour. Pleasant enough.",horrible
"Well put together tight wine, bright and vibrant. Good fruit, nice balance. Probably only for short term aging. A good",horrible
"White bread leaps about of the bottle on opening. Nutty, dry, green apples - the fruit changes every time you come back to it. A prestige cuvee that lives up the billing. Lovely drinking. Easy",terrific
"A blend of grapes from 89,90 and 91 - Cuvee 5, disgorged March 04. Fresh bread and apple nose, rich full yeasty and meaty palate. Perhaps in danger of being a bit coarse without food (as Blanc de Noirs sometimes are) - possibly a little more time in bottle will help. Complex and with a long, honied finish. This opens up with a little breathing and is really rather good. Top",terrific
"Honey, yeast, apples - a complex nose and palate that repays attention. This still seems a bit tightly wound as yet. My impression is that while very good there's no extra depth of character apparent from its ""single vineyard"" status. A prestige cuvee I'll try again but I won't be rushing. Bare",terrific
"Quite autolytic, appley fruit, complex an honied, quite dry and with good pinot gutsiness. All this after seeming a bit maderised at first, but as often with Champagne this seemed to blow off. Excellent.",terrific
"Citric, appley nose with yeasty notes - quite complex. Ripe, rounded fruit despite the excellent acidity of the vintage - needs a bit more time though - aspects of it seem quite tightly wound still. Quite long too and creamy textured.",terrific
"Light to medium weight, elegant, complex and nutty, quite long. Just occasionally it seems a little oily/keroseney on the palate but that may be the food I am having with it. Really pretty good, although probably for drinking over the next couple of years. A good deal from Oddbins at not muchover ú20. Bare",terrific
"A bit coarse on first sip, but this seems less noticable afterwards. The fruit quality is a way short of Champagne so a fairly basic wine. Pleasnat enough.",horrible
Last taste from a nearly exhhuasted bottle (I arrived late). Seemed typically lovely.,terrific
"Gamy, succulent tannins. Lovely.",terrific
"Gamy, warm berries, very pleasant - typical mature Beaucastel of this period.",terrific
"To make up for the corked Rhones! Touch of game, lovely ripe fruit, quite low acid. Lovely.",terrific
"Chocolate, cherries, strawberries, easy, rich yet appealing. Lovely complex palate. Really, really top Port.",terrific
"Quite mineral, but this seems a bit flabbier, flatter and lacking freshness than I remember. I could worry that we have a touch of premature-oxidation disease here although the wine is perfectly drinkable. I hope it's an odd bottle, the one I had in July 2004 was fine and I've had a couple since which I did not note because they were similar.",horrible
"Very (excessively even) citric, good acidity and a modest finish. No sign of 96 oxidation. I was given this knowing only that it was a 96 white Burgundy - thought it might be a disappointing grander wine. Actually this is rather good for its level. Top",horrible
Splendidly mineral and delicious. Bare,terrific
"One bottle rather orange an unpalatable - oxidized Burgundy syndrome, I fear. Another quite mature and hinting at the same but still rather good and pleasantly drinkable. The good one:",horrible
"Bone-dry, austere at first but then just very classic appetising white Burgundy at peak. Bare",terrific
"Very fine, balanced, complex. Intense, very long. Still improving.",terrific
"Ravishingly gorgeous, elegant, fragrant fruit. Very lovely, if a little light and perhaps no more than it ought to be for a Grand Cru. Some want to keep this for 10 years and (probably) good it will be in rather a different way, but I love it now too.",terrific
"Lovely mushroomy nose, perfectly fresh, nicely dry. Ripe but with excellent acidity and good length.",terrific
Creamy and mineral. Excellent,terrific
"Very mineral, stony and dry, lemony, intense, very Raveneau. Starting to drink well.",terrific
"Delicate, fragrant, almost floral. Medium-weight palate, succulent tannins gives some bite on the finish. Bare",terrific
"Very evolved colour. Open nose, rich, hinting at corruption. Slightly open palate that puts me off, but classy irony hints are rather lovely. Bare",terrific
A bit grassy and cloying on the finish. I enjoyed this at The Square in London a while ago but it seems a bit dull this time.,horrible
"Bright, clean, nice pure fruit. Nice acidity - mouthwatering. Scrapes",horrible
"Quite rustic, light-bodied but quite intense. Characterful. Top",horrible
Quite leesy and rich - Chassagne-like. A touch showy perhaps. Top,horrible
"Nice tone, appetising.",horrible
"This wine has been a bit of an enigma over the years - Toby and I have both given varying reports. This bottle, however, was exactly what it should be. Fresh and vibrant, sweet strawberry and beetroot, and with good acidity. More than pleasant.",terrific
Bright and high-toned. Good.,horrible
Nice fruit concentration. Good acidity. Bare,horrible
Added complexity. Fine length.,horrible
Restrained - gives the impression of being a bit less complex - or is it just a bit closed? Bare,horrible
Pure Pinot - simple but nicely balanced. Bare,horrible
Richer and more complex.,horrible
Youngish vines but good definition with bright fruit. Bare,horrible
Elegant - well-bred. Pretty good. Top,horrible
"Christmas cake, underbrush, touch of smoke. Quite rounded fruit. Pretty elegant.",terrific
"Smokier, tea nose, fragrant, moderate weight. Quite easy-going fruit, very tannic finish.",terrific
"Tobacco-leaf, elegant, but just slightly rough-woody too. Is it absolutely and completely right?",horrible
"Smoky, cigary, classic. Later, spring flowers. Perfect balance. Lovely.",terrific
"Leesy, rounded, touch of nuttyness. Very fine.",terrific
"Rich, easy-going. pure, effortlessly fresh. Elegant and lovely. Bare",terrific
"Rounded, earthy, really quite splendid with years to go. A fine",terrific
"Pineappley oak from this (new) barrel, yeasty, rich and rounded fruit.",horrible
"Hazelnut fruit, quite tight and with good length. The acidity seemed moderate. Top",horrible
"Back to round, Chassagne richness. Mouthfilling, and potentially very drinkable.",horrible
"Tighter than the Romanee, excellent Chassane again.",horrible
A touch of ginger on the nose. Lots of class but pretty moderate weight again - one could imagine this filling out though.,horrible
"Ripe and plummy, beetrooty, quite rich.",horrible
"Higher-toned, crunchy red fruits. Potentially rather good.",horrible
"A synthesis of the last two, nice balance and quality fruit.",horrible
"Easier to see through the effects of recent battonage on this wine particularly. Apples, nuts, good richness. At least",horrible
"Forward, fruity, characterful. Top",horrible
"Richer, probably will be very good.",horrible
"Pure, dry, penetrating, very classic. Maybe even",horrible
"Pure and bright, nice fruit but rather tannic. Good",horrible
"Lovely pure fruit, very fine - I do hope it doesn't get too much oak, but I fear it will dominate the wine. Top",horrible
"Tannic again, but a nice purity of fruit.",horrible
"Concentrated, rich and tannic.",horrible
"Forward, fruity, nicely made.",horrible
"Quieter, less flamboyant than the Auxey. Attractive.",horrible
"Pure, dry, quite tannic.",horrible
"Quite mineral, leesy now, fine, frangrant and elegant.",horrible
"Stony cherries, really nice fruit.",horrible
"Strong, iron, dry and reserved, with quite light-bodied fruit.",horrible
"More rounded, fruity and earthy.",horrible
"Intense, round cherry fruit, and a touch of farmyard.",horrible
"Mineral, light-bodied, dry and intriguing.",horrible
"Nice nose, pure and unforced. Fine, dry palate. A good example.",horrible
"Bright red fruits, pure and appetising. Very fine for the classification. Top",horrible
Red fruits - very Chambolle. Good concebtration and complexity for village wine.,horrible
"Orchard fruits and plums, quite easy-going. Top",horrible
"Higher-toned, cherries, quite dry, bright and elegant. Very good indeed.",horrible
"Mineral, high-toned, savoury and appetising.",horrible
Not unlike the Fuees but a little less striking at this stage.,horrible
Pretty feeble effort. This could be fizzy anything. It has no character.,horrible
"Dull - none of the depth, freshness of fruit or vibrancy I was expecting.",horrible
"Sherberty, lemony. Extravagantly rich. Touch of liquorice. Has a certain appeal, but it's out of balance to me. Bare",horrible
"Very cassis nose, minty. Very primary. Very ripe. Structured under quite open fruit.",horrible
"Rich, lifted cherry fruit. Touch of oak etc.",horrible
Cherry again - dry tannins. Might come good.,horrible
Drying out badly.,horrible
"Very graceful - round, ripe fruit. Lovely.",terrific
Medium weight with a lovely savoury palate and a touch (not unpleasant now they are resolved) of the vintages tannins. I like this a lot - probably has more time left than the 81. Bare,terrific
"Very nicely classic. Cigar box and sweet, ripe fruit nose. Follows through nicely with a high-toned palate. Bare",terrific
"A bit faded, but alive and quite pleasant - splendid effort for the vintage. Very drinkable. From a half. Top",horrible
Intriguing brown-sugar nose with lots of mineral terroir notes. Very classic and savoury - gorgeous. Returning to it: walnut nose and the palate too is like licking one. High-toned again. Really splendid but still needs time.,terrific
Stunning mix of flavours - quite fascinating. Hints at an edgy volatility too. Delicious but needs drinking - it may be a bit unstable. Top,terrific
Perfectly balanced mature Claret - So mineral. An absolute pleasure from beginning to end.,terrific
"Stands out above the last two wines with an amazing extra depth and huge complexity. Suave, yet dry. Very, very long. No hurry to drink.",terrific
"Very ripe and rounded - silky rich texture and a long, complex palate. Relatively forward. I can see how this got its rave reviews from Parker, but on returning there are piquant notes too. Top",terrific
"Exotic coconut nose, creamy. Not Claret as we know it, but fascinating. There's great depth and structure and so this probably will be stunning in a while. Bare",terrific
"A blend of 91, 90 and 89. Apple and mushroom nose and palate - very meaty and substantial. Big finish.",terrific
"Very reductive but after a while in the glass, fragrant, sous-bois, nutty. Real tar and roses. Reveals more each time ypon come back to it. Bare",terrific
"Fresh, mainstream old Barolo - tar and roses again. Very nice.",terrific
"An ancient-looking bottle. Appetising, nutty, good length. Pleasing fruity background. Very nice. Bare",terrific
"Ripe, fruity. Rather simple. Quite New Worldy.",horrible
Quite characterful. Mothbally fruit. I like it in a way - more than the Planeta but it hasn't the class of the Isole wine. Top,horrible
"Inky, tannic. Youthful, not that concentrated. Touch of mint.",horrible
"Inky colour, tannic, quite silky fruit. Classy. Top",horrible
"Blackcurranty, minty, silky. Perfectly nice but no real class.",horrible
"Baked fruit. Quite reasonable given that, but not really special.",horrible
Pleasant but a bit faded and disjointed. Bare,horrible
Label mainly gone - clearly old. Slightly sweet and a bit nutty.,horrible
"Broader, more open on the nose. Easier going. Lovely, but not quite as mineral as the Intistieti. Bare",terrific
"Fantastic nose, a mix of floral scents and high-toned fruit. Explodes in the mouth.",terrific
"Deeper colour, open, ravishing nose. Creamy again, pure, but open rather than high-toned. Mature, I think. Bare",terrific
"A slight prickle at first, dissipates but perhaps takes the edge off a lovely, balanced, mature wine. Bare",terrific
"Even more luscious. Ethereal, nutty, long. Fascinating - even more so given the the lack of clarity about what it is.",terrific
"Clean, dry, a bit leafy. Modern styled - could be anything.",horrible
Very nice - less characterful than Tondonia and this seems only to be a Crianza. Still very drinkable. Top,horrible
"Creamy, citric, long. Lovely fine texture. Needs a year or two. Lovely. Bare",terrific
Rather VAish - nice underlying fruit. Austere.,horrible
"Tea nose, cedary fruitcake. Sweet palate, quite leafy Cab. Slightly chunky Cos style - but very good.",terrific
Lovely - hints at old Sherry and Madeira. Fantastically elegant and fine from appearance to finish. Stunning.,terrific
"Floral, suggestions of warm hay. Light, refreshing, noticably off-dry.",horrible
Still Prosecco - it does seem rather featureless!,horrible
A domaine in Quintaine (Macon). Charming and easy - in the best sort of way. A great advert for basic Burgundy.,horrible
"Intense, sherberty, rather closed - needs time. At least",horrible
"High-toned, bright, delicious.",terrific
Very fine indeed.,terrific
Pure and elegant but very gutless and lacking complexity. Disappointing. A sign that Jaboulet is losing it?,horrible
"Kerosene, intense, OK but not huge acidity. Very nice.",terrific
"Ice-cream - lovely, dry, piquant palate - intense. Quite tannic. Perhaps",terrific
"Like all the Gravner whites, a deep golden colour quite unlike most modern white wines. Jammy nectarine nose, rather red-wine-like. Grapey peach palate, long and honied. Striking and interesting. It has the structure (some tannins) and balance to improve. Lovely.",terrific
"A little diffuse on the nose by comparison - there's some extra complexity from the odd mix of grapes involved, but I feel that is superficial and I prefer the honied purity of the Ribolla. Excellent again.",terrific
"Honied nectarine again, excellent but lacking the depth of the 1999 - also perhaps a touch ""flatter"". Still exciting. Bare",terrific
"Interesting, fine flavours - again a lot less weighty than the 1999. Perhaps scrapes in at",terrific
"High-toned cherry fruit right through the palate. Charming, nice tannins, decent acidity. Very good.",horrible
"Ripe, very pure, cherry-like again. Pretty exciting wine, needing a few years yet. Top",horrible
"Fantastic texture and density, really good. So suave.",terrific
Lovely - mouthwatering and delicious. Scrapes,terrific
Seems rather evolved at first - takes time to open up. When it does it has amazing intensity and length. The flavours centre around mushrooms and slow-moving rivers. Lovely.,terrific
"Dry, intense, long. Benchmark wine, I feel.",terrific
"Fragrant, dry, a mid-palate hole but with time in the glass, lovely.",terrific
"Dry, keroseney, long. Pretty much dry, in the Trimbach style. Excellent.",terrific
"Ravishing, fragrant nose. Middle-weight - balanced, long, lovely. A top",terrific
"More sauvage, with bright fruit. Still quite tannic - could do with a couple of year. It won't be quite as graceful as the Chave, but it's very, very good.",terrific
Porty - needs time - dry and flavoursome. Top,terrific
"Very fine, dry, ripe but not overblown. Classic Cabernet cedaryness too. Top",terrific
"Fine, elegant, possibly a touch spirity. Very classy but it perhaps needs to be studied carefully on a fairly clean palate. Still, I think",terrific
A bit sulphury. Sauvignon dominated - like an oaked NZ wine. Banana-like fruit. Bare,horrible
Very immediate hit of warm-climate-like cab. Easy-going - fine for a BBQ. No great finish. Bare,horrible
"Cashews, yeasty bread, honey, creamy fruit - a different character on returning each time. Taught acidity and good length. Really fine - perhaps even",terrific
Most of my recent notes of this wine have been from a single case bought at auction a while ago. I have since discovered from the nice people at Gosset that it is a 93+94+95 blend. Lovely honey and apples with yeasty undertones. Some will say it is showing a touch of oxidative character and I suppose it is although I don't find it remotely a problem. Very rich but now in perfect balance.,terrific
A bit woody - extravagent oak as often with Grivot. Dry and austerely planky. I'm not so keen - others may like more.,horrible
"Rasins, a touch of oxidation, sweet pruney palate. OK but unremarkable.",horrible
"Very pale - the colour has dropped out as sediment. Madeira-like nose, pleasant port palate.",horrible
"Very pale, mushrooms and biscuits. Probably very old (some paper labels claim some of these bottles as 1850's - if any are, it's this one) and past its best.",horrible
"From different source and showing up all the previous wines. Lovely graceful old wine, fruity and scented, still fresh. It develops in the glass and is completely delicious. Top",terrific
"Nutty, yeasty, lovely mature Champagne. Bare",terrific
"Mineral, clear, fine. A stunning effort for the vintage. Top",terrific
Still a touch hard but very fine.,terrific
Lovely mature Claret. Perhaps even a bare,terrific
"Dry, very smoky, quite baked fruit. Seems younger than its years.",terrific
"Gummy, quite intense, in-your-face stuff.",horrible
"Elegant, lovely balance. Class always tells. Bare",terrific
"Very marmaladey, soft , delicious. I need to think more about this - is it Tokay somehow as it should be, or is it turned into something else for the modern market. I'm not sure yet, and I need to drink a couple of glasses more contemplatively. Still, it's at least very impressive.",terrific
"Nicely shaped bottle, and reasobale stuff inside it. A bit coarse and woody, and a bit too sweet.",horrible
"OK, but nothing out of the ordinary.",horrible
"Good nose, but not typical. A really very coarse palate.",horrible
"Nicely made, fruity but not vulgar. Very drinkable. Bare",horrible
No excessive 2003 flab although I'd like a bit more precision and minerality. Decent wine.,horrible
"Excellent fruit, especially given the vintage. Gamy and mineral. A lovely mouthful but the finish is a touch harsh. Still",terrific
"Creamy, fragrant, delicate, quite fine. Butterscotch background to greengage fruit. Completely fresh with a long finish. (Magnum)",terrific
"Lovely, creamy, fine acidity, good length. Appetizing. Lovely.",terrific
Beetroot fruit - harder than the previous wines. Very baked and extracted. This is really not a success.,horrible
"Very fine - deep, rich, silky with a lovely refined, dry palate. Splendid for vintage, but could one regret the lack of C-R typicity?",terrific
Lighter at the final analysis - although more mouthfilling. Top,horrible
"Acacia, nuts. Intense, dry, long. Drinking but no hurry.",terrific
"Lime, herbs, cream. Not heavy on the palate - lovely. Top",terrific
"Fragrant, piquant cranberry, yet meaty (bovril) nose. Excellent for the vintage. Partly on the basis of interest - a bare",terrific
"Fat, nice botrytis, a touch of paint-stripper and not so long. Good",horrible
"Lightweight yet concentrated. Ethereal, complex chocolatey fruit. Lovely.",terrific
Very juicy with a touch of Italianate bitterness to give it a grown-up appeal. Finishes a touch abruptly perhaps. A good,horrible
"This is half Chardonnay and half Pinot Meunier - the latter not that apparent. Very yeasty, seems a bit four-square at the moment (perhaps that is where one sees the P-M). Rich and really very long. Clearly need quite a lot of time, and I can see it could well be very good in a decade or so, although it might be a bit light on finesse. Bare",horrible
"Possibly a touch too old now, but lovely old Champagne nonetheless. Mature and elegant for its depth.",terrific
"One of the first wines I bought with a view to keeping. I love old white Burgundy, and this didn't let me down. Lovely, oily, nutty ethereal stuff.",terrific
"Disappointing. Not past it, but just not particularly special. Maybe it still needs loads more time to develop?",horrible
Lovely pure beetroot and raspberry nose. Drinking very well. Silky.,terrific
"Stylish nose, slightly resinous - a bit thin on the palate. Pleasant.",horrible
"Slightly flat, flavoursome, a bit rustic. Interesting, up to a point.",horrible
"Honied nose, strong palate. Quite evolved - ready in fact and needing drinking over the next few years, I suspect. Even unflawed 96's seem to be aging quite quickly.",terrific
"Open, peachy, luxurious. A little light, some thought, but I loved it.",terrific
"Grenachey, cassis overtones - quite raw finish. A bit rubbery.",horrible
"Nice balance, clearly warm-vintage. A lovely balance of slavours. Coming round to drinking quite fast. A good",terrific
"Fragrant nose. Gummy, rich, very fine.",terrific
"Burnt, a bit thin. Bare",horrible
"Fruity, grassy - like a new world semillon. Pleasant enough.",horrible
Nice fruit quality - quite suave. Decent length. Top,horrible
Very fresh raspberry fruit with a meaty underlay. Very refined texture and good length. Once it has been open a while it seems even more Burgundian. It needs a bit more minerality or something to be truly outstanding. Scrapes,terrific
"Quite tight and closed, but opens out with time as it warms up. Excellent intensity and a long brioche finish. Good balance.",terrific
"Sold to me in Oddbins as the wine that beat Dom Perignon in a recent competition. Actually it might have been the NV Blin that did this - different assistants in Oddbins attributed the result to both wines. This wine is good, but not DP good. There's a touch of sweetness and some heaviness of hand.",horrible
Drinkable.,horrible
"Rich, quite forward (sepcially for the vintage), the quality shows in the persistence. Lovely Juniper/Gin edge to the nose.",terrific
Lighter and a touch vegetal. A touch thin but nevertheless it is a wine of character. Top,horrible
"Really quite Northern Rhone-like and very stylish, gamy Syrah.",terrific
"Very complex, smoky wine. Really lovely. Scrapes",terrific
"Gamy but elegant. A little overawed by the Rayas wines, but fine. Bare",terrific
"Balanced and rich, but perhaps not showing ideally now. A little more time might help. Still",terrific
"Very creamy but not rich. Dies a bit in the glass. Interesting, and pretty good for an average vintage, vineyard, etc. Top",horrible
